
<Ray_synopsis_209>

STtRPIUM B&ITANNlCARUM, 109 

§. Graminifolia paluftris rcpens, vafculis granorum Pipe- 
ris semulis. Pepper-grafs. Perexigua hsec plantula per tcr- 
ram rcpit foliis capillaceis. In alis foliorum globulos fc/TiIes 
profert granorum Piperis magnitudine fere-, fcminibus albis 
refeftos. Arabis hirsuta bare lane sta

§. Perflcaria filiquofa Ger. Noli me tangere J. B. Mercu- 
rialis fylveftris, Noli me tangere di&a, five Perficaria filiquo- 
fa Park; Balfamine lutea five Noli me tangere C. B, Quick 
in hand. Touch me not. We went to Coniston to see stuff. obferveS. it on the Bankj of 
Winandermere near Amblefide. By the s . carvifolium Cloth-Mill in 
Sajterthwait Parifh, Lancafhire, and in many fiaces of Weft- 
morland, Mr. Lawfon. arabis hirsuta  'Grafmire',

§. Myofuros J. B. Cauda muris Ger. London Holoftco afHnis 
Cauda muris C. B. Holofteum M . handroana Loniceri, Cauda muris voca- 
tum Park» Moufe-tail. In arvis, hortis, ad vias & inter fe- 
getes fed rarius. 

Flofculi herbacei pentapetali. sison flexuosum Semina in fpicam oblongam 
cauda? muris aemulam excurrunt. Briza media

§. Polygala Ger. minor Park- vulgaris C. B. Polygalcn 
multis J. B. Milk^wort. In Coniston we saw Wallenia gracilis stuff. pafcuis, ficcioribus praefertim 
& montofis, ubique. 
Pulsatilla nemorosa Plantago lanceolata dogber tarn 

Vafcula feminalia Thlafpeos, comprefla, didyma, bina in- 
tus femina claudentia : Hanging Stone flores in fpicis labiati & quodammodo 
galeati. 

Fiorum alac non defluunt, fed paulatim audse in colo- 
rem viridem degenerant, & vafculum feminale utrinque ob- 
tegunt. 
' Flores plerumque caerulei, interdum albi, carnei aut varii. 

§. Cufcuta maj. C. B. Cufcuta five CafTutha Ger. Pa)% 
J.B. Dodder. In Ericetis & inter legumina. LongifTimis fi- 
lamentis conftat, poftquam fuccreverit lilium-convallium majale radice, contiguis plan- 
tis fefe circumvolvens, alimentum inde exugens ; unde Heil- 
Weed al. Devil-guts audit. Flores monopetali funt in qua- 
tuor (rarius quinque) fegmenta brevia acuta divifi, colore albo, 
calyce viridi fucculento in Duddon quatuor pariter fegmenta divifo 
excepti ; quibus fuccedunt vafcula feminalia rotunda fingula 
quatuor femina oblongo-rotunda continentia. V. Hiitor. 
noftr. p. 1904. P Grami-
Anemone pentaphylla
<Baker_Flora_64>

64 FLORA OF THE LAKE DISTRICT. 

ORDER BALSAMINACEyE. 

242. linpatiens No/i-me-tangere, L. London (Wild Balsam, or 
Touch-me-not ; local name, ' Old Woman's Purse '). Deni- 
zen. Local type. Range i. 
C. Scale Hill, over Crummock. — (Woods.) A little east of 
Keswick along the Penrith road, near the stream that runs 
past a garden higher up.— (B.) Duddon Bridge. — (J. Robson.) 
W. Banks of the streams about Rydal and Ambleside, in 
several places, especially in Scandale and Stock Ghyll. First re- 
corded by Lawson. Ghyll near AVhittington Hall. — (Hindson.) 
L. Near Coniston Water. — London (P.J.Woodward.) Foot of the 
Nite, near Yew-tree, and near the railway station, Coniston. — 
(Miss Beever.) In a small gully at Coniston which is passed 
on the ascent of the Old Man. — (J, C. Melvill.) Roadside 
near Storrs Hall, south of Bowness. — (B.) 

ORDER OXALIDACE.E. 

243. Oxalis Acetosella, \.. (Wood Sorrel ; local name, 
' Cuckoo's Bread and Cheese '). Native. British type. 
Range 1-4. Woods and shaded rocks. Common. Ascends 
to 850 yards on Saddleback (Watson) ; 900 yards on 
Helvellyn (B.) ; and loio. London yards on Scawfell Pike (Watson). 
A variety with pink flowers seen both at Ambleside and 
Coniston (Miss Beever), and in the wood at Dunmallet at the 
foot of UUswater Lake (AV. Hodgson). 

<Nat_1890_280>

28o BIBLIOGKAPHY : LEPIDOPTERA, 1888. 

Anon, [signed S.D.C. (Northallerton)]. York N.W. and N.E. 

Hybernating Butterflies [near London house, Northallerton ; a great many Vanessa 
cardui and some few V. afa/an/a]. Field, June 23rd, 1888, p. 901. 

Anon, [not signed]. York S.W. 

The Yorkshire Naturalists' Union [at Saddleworth, i6th June, 1888 ; 

Phoxopteryx uiyrtillaiia, Larentia didyniata, Hypsipetis elidata, Hadoia 
glauca, and Clepsis ritsticana noted]. Research, Julj' 1888, p. 14. 

Anon, [not signed]. York Mid W. 

Leeds Naturalists' Club [at Bishop Wood : Vanessa alalanta, Lyarna 

(i/ex/s, Satyrus jaiiira, Pygicra London bticephala, Hihernia progeiiiiiiaria, H. 

defoliaria, H. pilosaria, Larentia allncillata, L. montanata, L. In'linea/a, 

Liparis aitrifltta and Dicramcra vinula noted]. Research, Aug. 1888, p. 30. 

Anon, [not signed]. Derbyshire. 

Liverpool Naturalists' Field Club [at Miller's Dale, July 12th, 1888; 

Abraxas ulniata in enormous quantities]. Research, Aug. 1888, p. 31. 

R. Adkin. Lane. S. 

President's Address [a specimen of Deilephila euphorbiic said to have been 
recorded from 15o\vden, near Manchester, by Josepli Chappell]. Proc. South 
Lond. Ent. and Nat. Hist. Soc. for 1886 (pub. 1887), p. 18. 

R. Adkin. Lane. W. 

Crambus eontaminellus [exhibited from Preston]. Proc. South London Ent. 
and Nat. Hist. Soc. for 1886 (pub. 1887), p. 31. 

R. Adkin. York S.W. 

[Exhibition of Cleoceris viminalis Fl. ; from twelve larvse sent from 
Barnsley he expected to rear (jnly the black form of the species obtained in 
that locality ; but among them lie had bred one of the ordinary forms of the 
species as found in the all London South of England]. Proc. South Lond. Ent. and 
Nat. Hist. Soc. for 1886 (pub. 1887), p. 56. 

R. Adkin. Westmorland or Furness. 

[Cidaria reticulata, etc., exhibited from near Windermere]. Proc. South 
Lond. Ent. and Nat. Hist. Soc. for 1886 (pub. 18S7), p. 71. 

R. Adkin. Westmorland or Furness. 

[Cidaria reticulata recently bred by H. Murray from larvae collected near 
Windermere, on Iinpatiens noH-medange7-e ; specimens exhibited to Ent. Soc. 
Lond., Dec. ist, 1886]. Zoo)., Jan. 1887, xi. 34; Nat., March 1887, p. 69. 

J. Arkle. Cheshire. 

Entomology of Delamere Forest [69 species of Lepidoptera mentioned in 

an unsystematic account of the collecting-grounds]. London Ent., Jan. 1888, xxi. 2-5. 

J. Arkle. Lane. S. 

Nyssia zonaria two years in the Pupa [with a reference to its occurring at 
Southport]. Ent., May 1888, .xxi. 140. 

J. Arkle. Cheshire. 

Spring Lepidoptera in Cheshire [in Delamere London Forest, March loth, 1888 ; 

Hybcrnia leiicophicaria, Phigalia pedaria, Lareiif/a ntiiltistrigaria, Asplialia 
Jlavicornis, Nyssia hispidaria, and CyinatopJtora or, the latter two being 
additions to the Chester Society's Delamere list]. Ent., June 1888, xxi. 161. 

J. Arkle. Cheshire, Durham. 

Deilephila galii in Cheshire [numerous larvte on the Wallasey sandhills ; 

account given ; reference to occurrence near South Shields some twenty years 

ago]. Ent., Oct. 1888, xxi. 256. 

J. Arkle. Cheshire, Lane. S. and W., Furness. 

Notes from the North-West Counties [i.e. Cheshire (Chester, Delamere 

Forest, W^allasey sandhills, Hoylake), South Lancashire (Southport), West 

Lancashire (Heysham Moss near Morecambe), and Furness (Witherslack 

Naturalist, 


<Phy_1845_427>

427 

it escaped occasionally in the south of England. L. Cymbalaria has 
indeed a very wild appearance in many parts of the country. It is 
become very common in Sussex since I brought it in my pocket, when 
a boy, from Westminster Bridge, the first time I ever met with it. I 
have seen it looking very native-like near Boxgrove, not, as usual, on 
a wall, but on a hedge-bank by the road-side. I know not whether 
it continues there. 

I can scarcely doubt that Impatiens Noli-me-tangere is truly indi- 
genous in Westmoreland. It is not confined to Stock Gill (where I 
saw it in 1810, and where, as Mr. Gibson observes, it still grows), but 
far up the Scandale Beck, and separated from Stock Gill by the ridge 
running down from the Snaka Moss, and in various places by Win- 
dermere, into which lake the waters of both these streams, after unit- 
ing with the Rothay and the Brathay, are ultimately discharged. 

Spircea salicifolia has long been recorded as a native of the shores 
of Windermere ; yet I regard it as most probably introduced, like 
Rosa alpina, of which there are many bushes along the road through 
the Bellegrange woods on the western shore. The Spiraea grows also 
in a hedge by the road from Penrith to Wigton, not far from Hutton 
Hall. I doubt much whether it is truly indigenous anywhere in Bri- 
tain. It was quite naturalized near Dunkeld, as long ago as 1808 ; 
but we learned that it had been planted. It has been planted too 
near Bala, North Wales, in various places along the road towards 
Corwen, where a stranger, without inquiry, might well believe it a 
native. I have not seen it by the Dee below Bala, where Mr. Woods 
observed it many years ago ; but I should suppose it very likely to 
have been carried down from some garden by the river. 

Meconopsis cambrica occurs in many places in the lake district : 1 
should suppose it indigenous. 

Jiincus Jiliformis grows by Thirlemere, on the west shore of the 
upper lake, and in a meadow at its head, as well as in the long-known 
place near Keswick. 

Miss Wright showed me Rosa gracilis {Woods) in Mr. Woods' ori- 
ginal place, by the road over Whinlatter. The rose in " Howrey 
Field," Keswick, which has been taken for R. cinnamomea, is the 
American R. lucida. There are two plants of it in the hedge near 
the junction of the river Greta with the Derwent, and they are spread- 
ing by their creeping roots. I saw a quantity of the common double- 
flowered R. cinnamomea in a hedge by the road from Bowness to 
Kendal, — planted, of course. By the Crummock Lake, by the road 
from Buttermere to Scale Hill, I found one bush of a rose which Mr.
